Docs 13004 asset lifecycle states bsj (#172)
mulesoft/docs-design-center: modules/ROOT/pages/design-publish.adoc

= Publishing API Specifications
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

When you want to share your API specification with other developers, you can publish it to Anypoint Exchange. 

== Before You Begin

> It is a good practice to remove unreferenced files before publishing a project to Anypoint Exchange. An unreferenced file is not referenced from the project's root file, either directly or indirectly.

Reviewer: optional, to highlight that we are defining the term:
```suggestion
It is a good practice to remove unreferenced files before publishing a project to Anypoint Exchange. An _unreferenced_ file is not referenced from the project's root file, either directly or indirectly.
```

For example, if the file `example.raml` is among the files in a project but the root file of the project does not reference `example.raml` with an `!include` tag, the root file doesn't reference `example.raml` directly. If none of the files in the chain of references from the root file directly references `example.raml`, it is not referenced indirectly from the root file. Therefore, `example.raml` is unreferenced and should probably not be among the files in the project.

> If you do not remove them before you begin, unreferenced files are detected when you select the option to publish to exchange and you are given options on whether or not to publish them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not remove them before you begin, unreferenced files are detected when you select the option to publish to Exchange, and you are given options on whether or not to publish them. 
```

. Click *Publish* and then click *Publish to Exchange*.
+
image:apid-publish-dialog-api-specs.png[The publish dialog shown when you publish from API Designer to Exchange]
+
<1> *Asset version*: The version number to be displayed in the *Version* section of the page that Anypoint Exchange creates for the project. You can republish assets that are in the *In Development* lifecycle state using the same asset version number. The asset version for assets that are in the *Stable* lifecycle state must be incremented to the next valid version when republished. For a description of this field, see <<asset-version>>.
<2> *API version*: The version number of the API specification. For a description of this field, see <<api-version>>.
<3> *LifeCycle State*: The lifecycle state of the asset. Assets can be published from API Designer as *In Development* or *Stable*. Assets cannot be deprecated from API Designer. 
<4> *Business group ID*: The ID of the business unit in Anypoint Platform to which the project belongs. 
<5> *Asset name*: The name that Anypoint Exchange uses to identify the published project. You should typically keep the value as is.

> <6> *Asset ID*: The ID that Anypoint Exchange uses to identify the published project. You should typically keep the value as is.

Reviewer: Would it be correct to replace "the value as is" with "the current [default?] value"? 
I ask only because "as is" strikes me as idiomatic of "as it is."

Author: Changed along with this line of thinking (default) and have sent a note to Eng to get more information the use cases where someone might want to change it.

+
. After completing the required fields, click *Publish to Exchange*.
+

> If your project includes files that are not referenced by the root file either directly or indirectly, a dialog asks you to confirm that you  want to publish the project with the unreferenced files. By default, API Designer excludes them from the published project in Anypoint Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project includes files that are not referenced by the root file either directly or indirectly, a dialog asks you to confirm that you want to publish the project including the unreferenced files. By default, API Designer excludes them from the published project in Anypoint Exchange.
```

> NOTE: If you are using the non-crowd version of Anypoint Platform and want to add the asset to API Manager while publishing to Exchange, select *Add to API Manager*. This functionality is not available in the crowd version and instead you can link API instances in API Manager to assets in Exchange.

Reviewer: If this refers to Atlassian Crown, then "non-crowd" > "non-Crowd".
Or, "If you are not using the Atlassian Crowd version...."

Reviewer: Assuming the above,
```suggestion
NOTE: If you are not using the Atlassian Crowd version of Anypoint Platform and want to add an asset to API Manager while publishing to Exchange, select *Add to API Manager*. If you are using the Crowd version, link API instances in API Manager to assets in Exchange.
```

Author: I'm tracking down this question. I searched the doc portal and can't find an explanation of what we mean by crowd other than a comparison of what non-crowd did vs. what crowd does. I'll update this as soon as I have a definitive answer.

[[asset-version]]
== Asset Version

Anypoint Exchange requires an asset version number for each API specification published. The asset version must be specified using semantic versioning rules. For details, see xref:exchange::to-change-raml-version[Change the Version of an Asset].

The content of the *Asset version* field on the publish dialog depends on the following:

* If you are publishing the specification for the first time, you can use any valid number based on the semantic versioning scheme. A typical starting version is `1.0.0`. 

> * If you are republishing the specification, API Designer populates the *Asset version* field with the next patch level number based on the number used when the specification was last published. You can change the number, but the republish will fail if you use a version number that has already been used to publish a stable version of this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are republishing the specification, API Designer automatically populates the *Asset version* field with the existing patch level number incremented by 1. You can change this number, but the republish fails if you use a version number that has already been used to publish a stable version of this API.
```

> * If the specification is being republished and you select the `In Development` state, you can can use the same number as a previously-published in-development version of the API, but not the same number as a previously-published stable version.

Reviewer: Parallelism:
```suggestion
* If you are republishing the specification and select `In Development`, you can use the same number as a previously published in-development version of the API, but not the same number as a previously published stable version.
```

Reviewer: Do we need to make clear that there are two types of asset version numbers: those for in-dev versions and those for stable versions?

[[api-version]]
== API Version

> Anypoint Exchange requires an API version number for each API specification published. 

Author: Yes

> The content and state of the *API version* field on the publish dialog depends on the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content and state of the *API version* field in the publish dialog depends on the following:
```

* If the specification includes the version, the version is filled in from the specification and you cannot update it on the publish dialog.
* If the specification does not include the version, you must enter the version in the *API version* field. 

== See Also

> * xref:exchange::workflow-sharing-assets.adoc[Workflow: Publish Assets]

Author: I used the name that is actually in the Exchange docs, but will change it here, since I can use whatever text I want for the cross-reference display name. I will give Jenny a heads up about it.

If you do not remove them before you begin, unreferenced files are detected when you select the option to publish to Exchange, and you are given options on whether or not to publish them. 

[publish-api-specs]
== Publish an API Specification

. In API Designer, open the API-specification project that you want to publish.
. If the specification has dependencies, click the refresh button beside `Exchange Dependencies` to ensure that Design Center has the latest status and content from all dependencies. 
. Click *Publish* and then click *Publish to Exchange*.
+
image:apid-publish-dialog-api-specs.png[The publish dialog shown when you publish from API Designer to Exchange]
+
<1> *Asset version*: The version number to be displayed in the *Version* section of the page that Anypoint Exchange creates for the project. For a description of this field, see <<asset-version>>.
<2> *API version*: The version number of the API specification. For a description of this field, see <<api-version>>.

> <3> *LifeCycle State*: The lifecycle state of the asset. Assets can be published from API Designer as *In Development* or *Stable*. Assets cannot be deprecated from API Designer. 

Reviewer 2: @bjoson-mulesoft one thing that was changed by the UX team together with Rithisha (PM for this initiative) is that `In development` should be replaced by `Development`, since `Development` is used across Exchange. I've fixed this some days ago, so you will maybe need to update the publish modal image and also the wording in the docs. Sorry for the short notice but this was a last minute change as a result of the UX Heuristic reviews. Let me know if I can help you in any way
